Webhooks refresh (#745)
liveblocks/liveblocks: docs/pages/guides/webhooks.mdx

meta:
  title: "Webhooks"
  parentTitle: "Guides"
  description: "Learn Liveblocks webhooks concepts and implementation"
---

In this guide, we will explain how to use webhooks within your product so that
you can react to Liveblocks events as they happen. Now that our platform is
observable, you can use webhooks to reduce development time and the need for
polling.

## Configuring webhooks

To set up webhooks for your project, you’ll need to create an endpoint,
subscribe to events, and secure your endpoint.

- [Creating an endpoint](#creating-an-endpoint)
- [Subscribing to events](#subscribing-to-events)
- [Security verification](#security-verification)
- [Replaying events](#replaying-events)

### Creating an endpoint [#creating-an-endpoint]

If you would like to create an endpoint to receive webhook events, you will do
so from within the webhooks dashboard for your project.

> 1. From the [dashboard](/dashboard) overview, navigate to the project you would

Reviewer: Not new to this PR, but we should find a way to have those links open in a new tab not to break navigation.
Maybe a solution exists? See [this thread](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4425198/can-i-create-links-with-target-blank-in-markdown)

cc @pierrelevaillant

Reviewer 2: `<a href="/dashboard" target="_blank">…</a>`

2. Click on the webhooks tab from the lefthand menu

<Figure>
  <Image
    layout="responsive"
    src="/images/docs/webhooks/webhooks-from-dashboard.png"
    alt="How to find webhooks from the dashboard"
    width={600}
    height={335}
    quality={90}
  />
</Figure>

3. Click the “Add Endpoint” button

<Figure>
  <Image
    layout="responsive"
    src="/images/docs/webhooks/add-endpoint-from-dash.png"
    alt="How to find webhooks from the dashboard"
    width={600}
    height={335}
    quality={90}
  />
</Figure>

4. Enter the URL of the endpoint you would like to use and a description of it.
5. Select the events you would like to subscribe to (if you make no selections,
   all events will be sent to the endpoint)

<Figure>
  <video autoPlay loop muted playsInline>
    <source src="/images/docs/webhooks/create-endpoint.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
  </video>
</Figure>

<Banner title="CSRF Protection">

Before sending events, you should disable CSRF protection for the endpoint if it
is enabled by default. In addition, you should also follow the steps in the
security verification section before sending events.

</Banner>

### Subscribing to events [#subscribing-to-events]

> Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by
> default but can be easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the
> Message Filtering section after endpoint creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, each endpoint provided in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events. However, you can easily configure it to only listen to a subset of events by updating the "Message Filtering" section after creating the endpoint.
```

The phrase was quite long, could we make it shorter?

Also, not sure if that’s better, but shouldn't we have the section name in quotes? Like we do when referring to buttons?

Reviewer: The changes make the phrase even longer, no? And what about making the "Message Filtering" section in quotes to be coherent when we talk about CTAs?

something like:

```ts
const crypto = require("crypto");

// webhookId comes from the `webhook-id` header
// webhookTimestamp comes from the `webhook-timestamp` header
// body is the request body
signedContent = `${webhookId}.${webhookTimestamp}.${body}`;
```

#### 2. Generate the signature [@hidden]

Liveblocks uses an HMAC with SHA-256 to sign its webhooks.

So to calculate the expected signature, you should HMAC the `signedContent` from
above using the base64 portion of your signing secret (this is the part after
the `whsec_` prefix) as the key. For example, given the secret
`whsec_MfKQ9r8GKYqrTwjUPD8ILPZIo2LaLaSw` you will want to use
`MfKQ9r8GKYqrTwjUPD8ILPZIo2LaLaSw`.

For example, this is how you can calculate the signature in Node.js:

```ts
// Your endpoint’s signing secret
const secret = "whsec_MfKQ9r8GKYqrTwjUPD8ILPZIo2LaLaSw";

// Need to base64 decode the secret
const secretBytes = new Buffer(secret.split("_")[1], "base64");
// This is the signature you will compare against the signature header
const signature = crypto
  .createHmac("sha256", secretBytes)
  .update(signedContent)
  .digest("base64");
```

#### 3. Validate the signature [@hidden]

> This generated signature should match one of the ones sent in the
> `webhook-signature` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated signature should match one of the signatures sent in the `webhook-signature` header.
```

one of the ones felt weird

> The webhook-signature header comprises a list of space-delimited signatures and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `webhook-signature` header comprises a list of space-delimited signatures and
```

to be coherent with the rest, no?

verifying the signature.

#### 4. Verify the timestamp [@hidden]

As mentioned above, Liveblocks also sends the timestamp of the attempt in the
`webhook-timestamp` header. You should compare this timestamp against your
system timestamp and make sure it’s within your tolerance to prevent timestamp
attacks.

<Banner title="Comparing signatures">

We recommend implementing a constant-time string comparison method when
comparing signatures to prevent timing attacks.

</Banner>

## Liveblocks Events

An event occurs when a change is made to Liveblocks data. Each endpoint you
provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default but can be
easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering
section.

The Event Catalog in the webhooks dashboard provides a list of events available
for subscription, along with their schema.

Events available for use include:

- `StorageUpdated`
- `UserEntered/UserLeft`
- `RoomCreated/RoomDeleted`

More events will come later, such as:

- `MaxConnectionsReached`

#### UserEnteredEvent

When a user connects to a room, an event is triggered, indicating that the user

> has entered. The numActiveUsers field shows the number of users in the room

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has entered. The `numActiveUsers` field shows the number of users in the room
```

#### StorageUpdatedEvent

Storage is updated when a user writes to storage. This event is throttled at
five minutes and, as such, may not be triggered for every write.

> For example, if a user writes to storage at 1:00 pm, the `storageUpdatedEvent`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if a user writes to storage at 1:00 pm, the `StorageUpdatedEvent`
```

event will be triggered shortly after. If the user writes to storage again at

> 1:01 pm, the `storageUpdatedEvent` event will be triggered 5 minutes after the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1:01 pm, the `StorageUpdatedEvent` event will be triggered 5 minutes after the
```
